well one of the challenge is always
before a concert like this is we're not
about to sing music where we explode or
we're all like lions
we're about to investigate some of the
more profound and some of the darker
emotions of humankind
so we're not really trying to fire
ourselves up to explode on the downbeat
in ten minutes
we're trying to focus our concentration
so that we can really bring to life in a
very beautiful and poetic way this
extremely profound music this week we
have been working with maestro hovels
it's kind of amazing how we've all been
sort of transported to this new early
music discovering scarlatti it was
really daunting at first I thought it
was gonna be a big challenge at first I
was a little intimidated I'm not gonna
lie but after getting to know him he is
fabulous he's the nicest guy and he
wants us so badly to just understand
everything this piece was incredibly
intimidating at first actually the
rehearsals were
ruling at times now the scarlotti is an
incredibly dense texture well
complex texture and as ten voices ten
parts and I've not done a lot of early
music a little bit scary with early
music because we're not as familiar with
the rhetoric or with how it's supposed
to be sung and Matthew Haws made it feel
completely comfortable with it and kind
of told it like a story
working with Matthew halls has been
eye-opening his his idea of text and
emotion and Roboto has changed me kind
of in a way of how I approach looking at
music like the scarlatti it is Mary
watching and grieving about her son
being crucified and I see as the first
half of it is her feeling the pain and
the suffering that we all should feel
for him sacrificing himself for our sins
and the other part of it is the the joy
we should feel for what he's done and I
think in order for this piece to be
successful everyone has to be on the
same page everyone has to be working
together I mean we all have to be
completely in rhythm with each other
completely in sync and I think yeah
that's how it has to be on the music but
it has to be that way there has to be
that continuing line through every
single person on the choir in Matthews
halls is that very apparent
and he dissected it down to every note
and every word and building every
technical aspect of the music into a
phrase starting with the smallest piece
just the words then we added notes then
we build the phrases then we build the
ideas and we build one movement and then
we do that for every single movement and
he built the entire piece from scratch
when he came here so tonight's rehearsal
the first part he's gonna work with
Chamber Choir and he mentioned to us
that it's going to be a performance for
the first 20 minutes and so we're coming
in we're just singing it all the way
through not stopping so that'll be a
nice reality check of where we are with
that piece oh yeah I think the card is
definitely gonna be up for it
definitely it's gonna be amazing
we discovered fairly early on that not
only when they're going to sing all the
right notes in the right order and with
complete confidence that make surely
we've been able to spend the greater
part of our time working on beautiful
musical things and talking about the
words that we're singing and really
developing the sound of the choir and
what they've achieved as a result which
is simply stunning an amazing week work
absolutely riveting it was thrilling
that was amazing I was amazing
it was a rush of an emotion you know I
was completely overwhelmed I was scared
out of my mind but once I got up there I
was completely calm and relieved and I
thought our solos went great and
everything went really well but it was
over too soon and I wish we could do it
again but unfortunately we can't